What is emergence (multiple things)

How would we see it manifest?

(Squiggles surpassing memory limits)

How does that work for pitch

Self-organization vs emergence (Where is the boundary?)

Leitmotifs

Semiology

Psychoacoustics

Multiple examples

Each pitch is its own agent, need to negotiate to be included

Real time negotiation between agents

Constrain the agents

Constraints-based approach

Leitmotif evolutionary algorithms



Each motif bargaining for time
Nodes in graph
Who can bargain who

Each pitch is an agent
preferred trading partners?


Evolutionary counterpoint
Evaluate counterpoints in accordance to the rules mentioned in Fux
Think about crossing algorithm, position is important, but also adjacency?


Try and affect velocity in some ways? Could be interesting?

Emergence in music, not boids pls

Arpeggios?

Give the agents limited resources

Remove constraints to get chaos (which is good)

Melodies is already kinda emergence?

Novelty through complexity



Constraints probably either time or pitch

Orchestra


Start from the beginning and end

Hamming distance for pitch - Compare histograms of note distributions

Some kinda gamma distribution esque value function

Solojam just disallowed small hamming distances

Start making a quartet simulation!



Energy simulation

Possibly allow changing every note

Instead of histogram do the way the note changes?

Dovetailing

More advanced keep track of note order



Hardware have multiple belas interact

Go full art installation

Todd Ingels

Make a histogram of notes played to determine "scale"



Plots!

Energy and utility!

Find out why the agents converge, and learn to control it.

Make a github!

Agents bargaining for notes they want to play.

Their allowance is their histograms.

How to make agents want to play certain notes?

Consider machine learning



Remember to push limits and not just stay on the same parameters

Find a way to make more voice easierly

Use a lot of agents to create a histogram of pitches/frequencies, use that to synthesize the music

Prettify the graphs

Make folders of everything you do just in case




Make new graphs for the old stuff as well

Explore game theory games with agents, ultimatum game, prisoner's dilemma

Read Xinakkis, and connect that to networks crowds and markets book

Check out dynamic systems



Make it circular?

Sine waves?

Simple sine waves, not anything too fancy

Make a writeup of this, for someone who is not familiar.

Create a way to influence it (heatmap or right number to add to histogram)

Pitch agents!

Make a real proper snapshot for the presentation



MAKE A WRITE UP (Inspirations, background, how it works, how well it works, basically like a paper but not as polished)

Pitch salience for relation between pitches

Stockhausen, sine wave composition, studie II

What happens when there are many agents?

What happens when there are very few agents?

For interactive system, parameters for changing max/min notes, number of agents, all in real time



Write more, expand

Two approaches to study

User study vs analyzing behavior

User study: If interactive, have people interact with it

Make videos of myself interacting with the system

Aim to have at least six people

In between musical partner and musical instrument

Different configurations could be different places on the partner-instrument spectrum

How do users' interaction change depending on where on the spectrum the system is

Create a version on either extreme

Until next week: Work on making it real time


Think of the visualization as a part of the system
Visualization of the bees

Make it possible to directly play

Make the different kinds of chaos sound different

Write down types of chaos

- Complete Chaos

- Two islands, one of agents, one of human

- Agents can't reach, human need to grab

- Few agents give clearer sound, more agents more "noisy"

"Grabbing agents"

Spacializing - Low frequencies on left speaker, high on the right

Don't focus too much on how people interact with the visuals, not as the research question

How the agents interact with each other, look into it, don't need a user study for that

How do people interact with the different types of chaos?

Think about what type of control experiment would you have?

Keep the focus on tasks and what the subjects should do

Color visualizations



Make a slider/knob that controls audio of system and audio of direct piano

Have user study check what settings the user ends up on (or if they keep switching them around)

In thesis:

- Describe regular bee algorithm

- Describe the system I have made

- Parameter description (especially adjustable)

- A diagram or two describing it (not just plots, but explanations of movement and similar)

- Describe the modes of operation (what settings cause them), again, diagrams

- User studies, how do people navigate the stabilities, and which do they stick with

Add some data tracking code to make plots from

Explain everything to participants, think of clear ways to explain

In the user study, have a task that is me describing modes of behaviour

Make note of parameters that makes the behaviour reproducable

Presets vs finetuned control - What do people like


Structure of experiment:

- Explanation

- Tasks with the knobs (make the most chaos, the most pretty, the most ____)

- Tasks with the presets
--Describe each adjective with presets (With and without visualization)

- Free reign (Do they use the presets, or do they prefer the knobs, or a hybrid)



Change the instrument behaviour to be done by the swarm



Write about mapping

one-to-one

one-to-many



How has the literature I refernce evaluated their systems

Make labels!

In the parameter section, describe if it makes it more chaotic or not.

Write about chaos vs controlability

Give each parameter a greek letter
Make a table at the start of each behaviour section detailing which parameters have to be a certain way, vs which ones are more flexible

MAKE 2D GRAPHS - track agents' path over time




Seperate future work into "What would be different if I did the user study again" (in Evaluation), and what would I do with the system as a whole (Future works)

Different level of interpretation

Each th
